Homework Assignment 2: Critical Thinking Lab
Keny Nguyen
Web Programming

Browser Used: Google Chrome

UG01: Cascade Investigation

Question:
What happens when the background-color declaration is temporarily removed
from one review box, and which CSS rule paints the box after it is restored?

Answer:
I temporarily disabled the background-color declaration in the
.review-quote rule using Chrome DevTools. Before the declaration was disabled,
the review box had the required light yellow background. After it was
disabled, the review box became transparent and the page's background image
showed through it.

The restored rule is:

.review-quote {
    background-color: #e1d697;
}

The .review-quote selector has a specificity of 0-1-0 because it contains one
class selector. No selector with greater specificity overrides this
declaration. The declaration also appears in the active external stylesheet,
so it wins the cascade and paints the review box light yellow. I restored the
declaration before completing the assignment.

Evidence:
evidence/ug01-cascade.png

The evidence image contains the yellow review box before the declaration was
disabled and the transparent review box after it was disabled.


UG02: Responsive Trade-off

Question:
At exactly 480px wide, what are the computed widths of the main review region
and sidebar, and what trade-off prevents horizontal scrolling?

Answer:
At a 480px browser viewport, the outer .movie-review container has a computed
width of 460px because the responsive rule uses:

.movie-review {
    width: calc(100% - 20px);
}

The container leaves 10px of space on each side. Its 4px left and right
borders leave 452px for the internal Grid track. The .reviews region and
.movie-overview sidebar each have a computed width of 452px because the
responsive Grid changes to one column.

The responsive rule is:

@media screen and (max-width: 700px) {
    .movie-review {
        width: calc(100% - 20px);
        grid-template-areas:
            "rating"
            "reviews"
            "overview"
            "counter";
        grid-template-columns: minmax(0, 1fr);
    }
}

The deliberate trade-off is that the 250px sidebar moves below the reviews
instead of remaining beside them. This makes the page taller, but it preserves
readable content widths and prevents horizontal scrolling.

For comparison, I temporarily changed the responsive container width to
800px. The page then extended beyond the 480px viewport and created horizontal
overflow. The final calc(100% - 20px) value is better because it fits within
the viewport while preserving space around the bordered container.

Evidence:
evidence/ug02-responsive.png

The evidence image contains the final 480px computed widths and the temporary
800px comparison showing horizontal overflow.


GR03: Architecture Defense

Question:
Why does the major page structure use named Grid areas while the repeated
reviewer metadata uses Flexbox?

Answer:
CSS Grid controls the major two-dimensional relationship between the rating,
reviews, overview sidebar, and counter. On desktop, the named areas place the
rating and reviews in the flexible left column, the overview in the 250px
right column, and the counter across both columns.

The desktop Grid is:

.movie-review {
    display: grid;
    grid-template-areas:
        "rating overview"
        "reviews overview"
        "counter counter";
    grid-template-columns: minmax(0, 1fr) 250px;
}

At exactly 700px, the outer container measured 680px and the internal Grid
track measured 672px. At exactly 480px, the outer container measured 460px and
the internal Grid track measured 452px. No horizontal page overflow appeared
at either size. The named areas changed to one column, which preserved the
content hierarchy.

Flexbox controls the one-dimensional relationship inside every .reviewer
component:

.reviewer {
    display: flex;
    align-items: flex-start;
    gap: 5px;
}

The computed flex-wrap value is nowrap. The critic icon remains 35px wide
while the reviewer name and publication stay aligned beside it. At narrower
sizes, text wraps inside the paragraph instead of pushing the icon out of
alignment.

Grid is appropriate for the page because it controls rows and columns.
Flexbox is appropriate for reviewer metadata because it aligns an icon and
text along one row.

Evidence:
evidence/gr03-architecture.png

The evidence image contains the page and measured layout at exactly 700px and
480px.


GR04: Failure Analysis

Question:
What controlled defect was introduced, what caused it, and how was it
corrected?

Answer:
I created a temporary separate copy of the page and added this test rule:

.review-quote {
    height: 40px;
    overflow: hidden;
}

The defect clipped longer review text because the fixed 40px height was
smaller than the height required by the paragraph. The overflow value then
hid any content outside that fixed box. Chrome DevTools showed that the text
continued past the box's content area but was not painted outside it.

The root cause was combining a restrictive fixed height with hidden overflow
on content whose length varies. The corrected page does not set a fixed
height on .review-quote. It allows the box height to be determined by its
content:

.review-quote {
    min-height: 0;
    overflow: auto;
}

After removing the temporary defect, every review expanded to display its
complete text. The original index.html and styles.css remained unchanged
during the controlled test.

Evidence:
evidence/gr04-failure.png

The evidence image contains the clipped defect state, the test rule in
DevTools, and the corrected review box.


Accessibility and Keyboard Audit

I used the Tab key to move through the official movie site and both validator
links. Each link received a visible blue focus outline from this rule:

a:focus-visible {
    outline: 3px solid #0000cc;
    outline-offset: 2px;
}

The focus indicator remained visible against the green sidebar and validator
buttons. All meaningful images have alternative text. Decorative critic
icons use empty alternative text so a screen reader does not repeatedly
announce the same decorative image.

Evidence:
evidence/accessibility-focus.png